06_ingest_new_flight_data.md, before:

# Ingesting New Flight Data

TBD -- introduction/overview section to be added to tee up this module

# Import Flow Definition

1. Open a web browser and go to https://github.com/cdp-trial-patterns/opendatalakehouse

2. Click on the file called `ingest_new_flight_data.json` and click the download icon to download the flow definition file to your local machine. 

    [<img src="images/Github-download-icon.png" width="350"/>](images/Github-download-icon.png)

3. Click and drag the Process Group and drag it onto the canvas

    ![Process Group Icon](images/nifi_process_group_icon.png)

4. After dragging the Process Group icon onto the canvas, click the Browse icon to upload the flow definition file downloaded in the previous step.

    ![Process Group Browse](images/nifi_process_group_browse.png)

5. Double-click the `ingest_new_flight_data` Process Group in the canvas

    ![Process Group Browse](images/nifi_process_group.png)

# Flow Definition Overview

TBD - A sentence or two description about what this section will cover.

- Mention that this is an already completed data flow, similar to the ReadyFlow templates in our Cloudera Data Flow (CDF) Public Cloud data service.

- Show the toolbox first
    - Talk about how it got built -- this is a drag-and-drop of processors that you see on the screen

- Show the yellow box
- Show that it's low-code / no-code
    - What do we mean by this?

- At some point, we want to walk through dragging a process onto the canvas, but not actually complete it

    - Drag onto canvas
        - Show and highlight a few processors to showcase sources and destinations, based on processors that are already on the canvas
            - Show ListS3
            - Show PutIceberg
            - Show ConvertRecord
                - Generally explain many different types of transformations that can be done
                - NiFi is commonly used as a raw data movement and transformation tool
                - Explain how we can transform between data types (CSV, Avro, etc.) 
        - Many sources, such as S3, relational databases
        - Many destinations like S3, etc

Walk through each processor in order.

    - Generally talk about the relationships between the processors. 

ListS3 Processor

    - One of the many sources we can connect to and pull data from

RouteOnAttribute

    - Routing is important in order to do special or prescriptive processing

FetchS3Object

    - The fetch will retrieve the zipped raw airline data from the S3 bucket

 UnpackContent

    - Since the files are zipped, we need to uncompress them.
    - 3 configurable properties
    - Mention that we can compress, uncompress and handle file manipulations, as needed

ConvertRecord

    - Introduce the concept of Controller Services
    - RecordReader -- explain what this is/does
    - RecordWriter -- explain
    - Schemaless vs Schema -- NiFi can work in a schema-less way, but when we need to write to a table in a database, we need to ensure we have the right layout with the correct fields, so we need to define a schema to support this.

PutIceberg

    - We are going to insert data into our existing Iceberg table
        - We are using the Iceberg table we created in the `01_ingest` module
    - Show the concept of Parameters, where the database and table names are parametertized
        - Allows us to dynamically define values that can be reused throughout our processors
    - Show the relationships tab and talk about failures
        - In this case, we're routing failures to a failure queue
        - Since this is a trial, we don't have this connected to an email alert, but in a Production 
        - setting, we could easily route failures to an email alert processor
            - For example, use the PutEmail processor to send an email to the data administrator
            - to alert when a failure occurs

Tie off on the flow. When we deploy our flow to Production:

    - Talk about the success and failure queues
    - Send an email alert when a failure occurs, so that we don't have to actively monitor 

# Flow Definition Configuration

Parameters

- Access Key ID and Secret Key - We may not need this, but depends on how the public S3 bucket gets implemented

- Bucket -- The name won't need to be changed by the trial user, but this name will be where new data will be written to (each month, a new file will be placed in this bucket)

- Show database parameter

    - They will have to change the database name to `prefix_airlines`

- Show table name parameter

- Hive Metastore -- we may need to change this

- Workload User - This will need to be changed before we export the final flow definition

Controller Services

- We will need to start most of them, show how this is done

Commit message:

06_ingest_new_flight_data initial/partial updates
Added content to beginning sections

06_ingest_new_flight_data.md, after:

# Ingesting New Flight Data

In this `Ingesting New Flight Data` module, you will supplement the data ingested from AWS S3 in the [01_ingest](01_ingest.md) phase by ingesting more recent airline data. To do this, you will:

- Import an existing data flow
- Get an overview of Cloudera Flow Management (CFM) and the imported data flow
- Configure and run the imported data flow 

CFM is a no-code data ingestion and management solution powered by Apache NiFi. With NiFi’s intuitive graphical interface and processors, CFM delivers highly scalable data movement, transformation, and management capabilities to the enterprise.

# Import Flow Definition

To import a data flow into CFM, the first thing we need to do is import a flow definition file.

1. Open a web browser and go to https://github.com/cdp-trial-patterns/opendatalakehouse

2. Click on the file called `ingest_new_flight_data.json` and click the download icon to download the flow definition file to your local machine. 

    [<img src="images/Github-download-icon.png" width="350"/>](images/Github-download-icon.png)

3. Click and drag the Process Group and drag it onto the canvas

    ![Process Group Icon](images/nifi_process_group_icon.png)

4. After dragging the Process Group icon onto the canvas, click the Browse icon to upload the flow definition file downloaded in the previous step.

    ![Process Group Browse](images/nifi_process_group_browse.png)

5. Double-click the `ingest_new_flight_data` Process Group in the canvas

    ![Process Group Browse](images/nifi_process_group.png)

# Flow Management Data Flow Overview

Now that we have imported a flow definition file into CFM, let's rewind to understand how we got here. This is a previously created, fully functional data flow, similar to a [ReadyFlow](https://docs.cloudera.com/dataflow/cloud/howto-using-readyflows.html) template available in [DataFlow for the Public Cloud](https://www.cloudera.com/products/dataflow.html).


- Show the toolbox first
    - Talk about how it got built -- this is a drag-and-drop of processors that you see on the screen

- Show the yellow box
- Show that it's low-code / no-code
    - What do we mean by this?

- At some point, we want to walk through dragging a process onto the canvas, but not actually complete it

    - Drag onto canvas
        - Show and highlight a few processors to showcase sources and destinations, based on processors that are already on the canvas
            - Show ListS3
            - Show PutIceberg
            - Show ConvertRecord
                - Generally explain many different types of transformations that can be done
                - NiFi is commonly used as a raw data movement and transformation tool
                - Explain how we can transform between data types (CSV, Avro, etc.) 
        - Many sources, such as S3, relational databases
        - Many destinations like S3, etc

Walk through each processor in order.

    - Generally talk about the relationships between the processors. 

ListS3 Processor

    - One of the many sources we can connect to and pull data from

RouteOnAttribute

    - Routing is important in order to do special or prescriptive processing

FetchS3Object

    - The fetch will retrieve the zipped raw airline data from the S3 bucket

 UnpackContent

    - Since the files are zipped, we need to uncompress them.
    - 3 configurable properties
    - Mention that we can compress, uncompress and handle file manipulations, as needed

ConvertRecord

    - Introduce the concept of Controller Services
    - RecordReader -- explain what this is/does
    - RecordWriter -- explain
    - Schemaless vs Schema -- NiFi can work in a schema-less way, but when we need to write to a table in a database, we need to ensure we have the right layout with the correct fields, so we need to define a schema to support this.

PutIceberg

    - We are going to insert data into our existing Iceberg table
        - We are using the Iceberg table we created in the `01_ingest` module
    - Show the concept of Parameters, where the database and table names are parametertized
        - Allows us to dynamically define values that can be reused throughout our processors
    - Show the relationships tab and talk about failures
        - In this case, we're routing failures to a failure queue
        - Since this is a trial, we don't have this connected to an email alert, but in a Production 
        - setting, we could easily route failures to an email alert processor
            - For example, use the PutEmail processor to send an email to the data administrator
            - to alert when a failure occurs

Tie off on the flow. When we deploy our flow to Production:

    - Talk about the success and failure queues
    - Send an email alert when a failure occurs, so that we don't have to actively monitor 

# Flow Definition Configuration

Parameters

- Access Key ID and Secret Key - We may not need this, but depends on how the public S3 bucket gets implemented

- Bucket -- The name won't need to be changed by the trial user, but this name will be where new data will be written to (each month, a new file will be placed in this bucket)

- Show database parameter

    - They will have to change the database name to `prefix_airlines`

- Show table name parameter

- Hive Metastore -- we may need to change this

- Workload User - This will need to be changed before we export the final flow definition

Controller Services

- We will need to start most of them, show how this is done
